---
title: Category:Locations
permalink: wiki/Category:Locations/
layout: tagpage
tag: Locations
---

Map of the Virgo
----------------

As of January 30th**,** 2018. Please also check our actual
["Map"](/wiki/Map "wikilink") page for more information.

<File:Planet-solars.png%7CSolar> array, found by heading out the air
lock on Surface level 1 and going west\|alt=Map of the planets Solar
farm. <File:Planet-mining.png%7CMining>, Found by heading Solar array,
found by heading out the air lock on Surface level 1 and going north.
\|alt= Map of Planets Mining area. <File:Planet-01-surface.png%7CThe>
first floor of the station. Surface 1: contains "Tram, Planet
exploration, Lower levels of science." \|alt=The first floor of the
station. <File:Planet-02-Atmos.png%7CThe> Second floor of the station.
Surface 2: contains "Atmospherics, Maintenance Tunnels, and Janitors
Offices." \|alt=The Second floor of the station.
<File:Planet-03-surface.png%7CThe> Third and final Floor of the station.
Surface 3: contains "Bar/Kitchen, Main level of science, Botany, Small
med office, asteroid shuttle, Recreational gym/pool" \|alt=Map of the
third floor of the station. <File:Tether-01-station.png%7CThe> first
floor of the space station. Asteroid 1: contains "Cryo, Holo Deck,
Engineering, Bridge, Dorms, Library, Escape pod."\|alt=Map of the first
floor of the space station. <File:Tether-02-AI> & Chapel.png\|The Second
floor of the space station. Asteroid 2: contains "Lower levels of
Security, AI chambers, Chapel, Lower levels of Medical, Misc
Engineering."\|alt=Map of the Second floor of the space station.
<File:Tether-03-Med.png%7CThe> Third and final floor of the space
station. Asteroid 3: contains "Main level of Medical, Main level of
Security, Cargo bay."\|alt=Map of the Third floor of the space station.
