---
title: Chaplain
permalink: wiki/Chaplain/
layout: wiki
tags:
 -  Jobs
---

Also known as the **Counselor**, the Chaplain's role is to provide
psychological support to the crew who need it. Besides your office, the
crematorium and the morgue, you have no access.

It is vital that you use the radio to call people to the
[Chapel](/wiki/Chapel "wikilink"), because otherwise it is less frequented
than the [Library](/wiki/Library "wikilink").

Duties
------

Each chaplain is free to invent the details of their rituals.

-   **Funerals**: You have a stock of coffins you can use for wakes and
    space burials (that is, launching them out of the mass driver). Some
    employees appreciate wakes being held for friends and loved ones.
    See below.

<!-- -->

-   **Psychological care**: This includes counselling, pharmaceutical
    remedies (consult the chemist), and confessions. You have a
    confession booth; you and the confessor enter separate rooms and
    switch on the radio terminals. Most crew members rarely if ever
    submit to psychological care of their own initiative; offer to help
    when someone looks troubled. Prisoners are most often in need of
    attention.

<!-- -->

-   **Church Services**: Give sermons and sing hymns. Feel free to make
    these up, just try to keep it relatively sane.

<!-- -->

-   **Other possible activities**: Investiture of new acolytes and
    paladins, dedication of mechs, gravitational singularities,
    psychical research and seances, and pilgrimages to various places.

Religions
---------

If you decide to go the religious route, the most common
NanoTrasen-approved religions (fluffwise) in the year include:

-   Unitarianism; the unifying of many major abrahamic Earth religions.
-   Technologism; the belief that robots and cyborgs are holy
-   Order of the Great Lady; the belief that the human race was gifted
    with the knowledge and ambition appropriate by a large, dragon-like
    alien who we now call Lady Elzra.

However you are free to propagate any present day religions you know of,
or even invent one of your own! Just make sure it doesn't go against
NanoTrasen and its values, or you may well end up in the brig.

### Background Information

Over the years religion has come and gone. Some faiths have faded out
entirely on one colony but remain strong on another. Due to this many
religions have been founded. Some worship gods, others, technology.
Atheism is perfectly acceptable and common. However, not all faiths are
permitted by NanoTrasen. As time has progressed, so has the religious
community. Many of the “Old Religions” of Earth have long since died
out, or merged into others. As of today, , there are a total of seven
options generally listed on most surveys.

#### Major Statistics

-   Atheism/Agnosticism - This is the current largest of the “beliefs.”
    About half of the current human population sticks to the idea that
    there is no higher power or anything of that sort, at least on
    surveys.

<!-- -->

-   Deism - The belief that through observation and reason, there is
    infact a “Creator,” but with how vast “Creation” itself -is-, he
    does not do anything towards it, and lets everything work on the
    natural laws of creation, so on and so forth. It became a very
    popular belief in the mid-21st Century, and has continued to grow
    since then.

<!-- -->

-   Buddhism - One of the few “Old Religions” to have not only survived,
    but thrived. Buddhism is not as well spread as the other three, but
    is still one of the larger religions among humanity today. It still
    follows the same principles as always, its' teachings of moderation
    having a universal appeal still unmatched.

<!-- -->

-   Unitarianism - Unitarianism is the general demographic under which
    followers of the Abrahamic religions are grouped. Officially,
    Unitarianism was created out of the merging between the Christian
    belief and the Islamic belief - It was officially formed some time
    in the mid-22nd Century. It is the belief that God is the
    all-father, Jesus is his son, and Muhammad is their prophet. There
    are still radical groups of the original religions, but they are too
    tiny to actually be noticed outside of Earth. Practicioners of
    individual Abrahamic faiths are generally plopped under this
    statistic as well, much to chagrin. Most of their numbers come from
    the inner Sol system- The farther out from earth, the more these
    religions have died down.

<!-- -->

-   Shinto - Another of the “Old Religions” to have survived to the 26th
    Century. Shinto is fairly popular in the more oriental colonies
    among the stars due to financial backers. It also has a fairly large
    presence on the Moon due to Japanese/American moguls owning a
    majority of it.

<!-- -->

-   Taoism/Confucianism - The final of the “Old Religions” to still be
    popular among the stars. The chinese indigenous religions tend to be
    the least considered of the big religions, though certainly a big
    factor - After escaping Earth post the political turmoil, many
    chinese emigrators from Earth tended to take to buddhism, but it
    remains a very strong faith out in many previously chinese mining
    colonies in the various asteroid belts.

#### Colonial Religious Systems

Colonial Religious Systems (or CRSs for short) are religions and/or
belief systems created in the colonial systems. Usually they don’t go
much farther than their home colony, system, or small sector of space
that contains 1-3 systems. CRS range from a large number of beliefs,
ranging from the old religions of say, Hinduism, or the belief in a
great “Dragon Mother” being the creator of the universe, and make up a
relatively large percentage of marked religious practices. Transhumanism
is popular in the odder scientific colonies around the jovian and
saturnine satellities -an international cultural and intellectual
movement with an eventual goal of fundamentally transforming the human
condition. Nonetheless, due to causing quite a few issues moral
issues(Such as the returning concepts of genetic fitness and so forth
often ascribed to these groups), public practice off of these
environments is generally politely discouraged, filed under CRS.

Thanatology
-----------

The Mass Driver's primary purpose is for burials-at-space; wooden
caskets are provides for this purpose. Caskets function likes lockers;
place the body in the casket, give a eulogy (over the
[radio](radio "wikilink") if no one is present), move the casket into
the driver and fire it.

Note that some crew members may seek to use the Mass Driver as a way to
exit the station into space. This should generally not be allowed
without very good explanation.

The Crematorium is used to turn bodies into ash. Remember to strip the
body before cremating it.

Propitiating the [Gods](/wiki/Administrators "wikilink")
--------------------------------------------------

The Pray command is like an [adminhelp](adminhelp "wikilink"), but is
[IC](/wiki/IC "wikilink"), and should be worded deferentially (e.g. "Oh Great
and Wise Pelor, please grant your humble servant...). It is advised that
you only pray later in the round; the gods have a habit of ignoring
early prayers.

Prayers are more likely to be answered if they are somehow thematically
appropriate: wishing for an RCD for no apparent reason is unlikely to be
fulfilled, but praying for, say, a divine mission or the tools to
complete such are more amusing to the gods.

You have candles and crayons in your locker. Candles can be set anywhere
and lit (they eventually burn down). Crayons can be used to draw runes
(commonly placed in front of the podium), as well as graffiti (not
really your style) and letters (allowing you to write out messages
across the ground).

Do not expect any prayers to be answered. Gods are fickle beings. Nobody
knows what they are going to do next in their great designs.

Artifacts
---------

### Your Book

You begin the shift selecting your god, religion name, and holy book
appearance. It can also hold a small number of items in it.

<s>Striking someone with it has a chance of either healing or causing
[brain](brain "wikilink") damage; there is also a minute chance of it
reviving a corpse. Try not to do with without good reason. Hitting
someone on the head with a book is not considered normal behaviour by
any means.</s> Your bible is a regular book. Do not hit people with it.

### Null Rod

An odd item that is said to repel the evil magic of
[Nar'Sie](/wiki/Cult "wikilink"). Made entirely out of obsidian, the rod will
reveal and dispel runes, and protect the wielder from them. Using on a
brainwashed cultist has a chance of reverting them, doing nothing, or
hitting them. Use it wisely.

Traitoring
----------

The chapel is a relatively secluded part of the station, and odds are
the AI won't be keeping an eye on it. You can drag around bodies, as
well as both space and cremate bodies without looking suspicious. It's
your job, after all.
