---
title: Guide to Resleeving
permalink: wiki/Guide_to_Resleeving/
layout: wiki
---

Resleeving is the process of putting a mind into a new body (the
'sleeve'), be that a copy of their original body, or an entirely new,
maybe even custom-tailored body. As a note, this technology is not
widespread outside of [Virgo-Erigone](/wiki/Virgo-Erigone "wikilink") and much
of the remaining [NanoTrasen](/wiki/NanoTrasen "wikilink") facilities have
standard cloning available instead. The technology used here was
provided by [Kitsuhana Heavy
Industries](/wiki/Kitsuhana_Heavy_Industries "wikilink"), though reproduction
blueprints have been provided to the stations in Virgo-Erigone, such
that they can replace any lost devices.

The Backup Implant
------------------

The mindstate backup implant effectively replaces the clone scans of the
past. The process is simply that medical (for organic crew) or robotics
(for synthetic crew) injects an implant into the base of the skull,
which begins storing and uploading the patient's memories and mindstate
to a central database on the station every so often ((left purposely
vague for RP purposes and 'forgetting' noncon scenes)).

Mindscan backups are invalidated by cryogenic technology, and handed off
to other sectors if the subject leaves the station, or departs the
station, thus resleeving crew that are not physically present and
implanted on or near the station is not possible. This is just as much
for privacy reasons as well as practical ones.

The Equipment
-------------

All staff wishing to be eligible for resleeving must have had a backup
implant prior to needing to be resleeved, otherwise there will not be
any mindstate backups of them, and they cannot be resleeved on station.
They may have a backup stored with CC or another agency, and can be
resleeved offsite.

### The Body Printers

There are two types of manufactories for new sleeves: the growpod, and
the SynthFab 3000. The former is capable of reproducing a wide variety
of bodies, though it can only produce very small synthetic organs (such
as a mechanical heart). Any synthetic limbs will be omitted during body
production. The SynthFab 3000 is used for producing fully synthetic crew
members from a previous scan, and does not require the blueprints to
produce the pieces individually.

In both cases, the reproduction is not 100% perfect. Produced biological
bodies may have genetic damage and will likely need treatment for such.
It's perfectly feasible to perform this treatment BEFORE continuing with
resleeving. Synthetic bodies may have minor damage that must be repaired
as well.

### The Resleeving Pod

The pod itself is the device by which you insert a backed up mind into a
body. Just put the body into the pod, double-check on the resleeving
pod's integrated screen that it's absent a mind and is the subject
you're intending to resleeve, then use the console to inject their mind
backup.

Note that some people have undergone scans at facilities with differing
scanner technology, and that not every body can accept every mind. It
just depends on the body, and how they were scanned. Note on the body
scan the 'Mind Compatibility' score. If this is 'Low', then the body is
unlikely to be viable with any mind other than the original being
resleeved into it, and the resleeving pod will reject attempts to do
otherwise.

Also note that resleeving is disorienting, particularly so if it is not
your original body. Allow the patient to get their bearings, or
administer drugs to alleviate their inevitable vision and motor control
problems.

### The Resleeving Console

This console allows you to inject minds into bodies in the resleeving
pod, be they synthetic or organic, as well as browse the database of
existing mind and body backups. Here you can review some basic
statistics about each, and check to see if their mind backups are
current. If they are not, it is likely they've met some untimely demise.
The status of 'Past-due' on a backup does not necessarily indicate that
they have expired RECENTLY, or even AT ALL. It could be that they were
affected by an electromagnetic pulse that destroyed the implant, or that
it was in a limb that was lost, but the owner is still alive.

Regardless, if the person in question is unable to be contacted, it's
likely safe to assume they should be resleeved, and the medical/robotics
technicians can begin working on that.

Legal Implications
------------------

Because of the fact that resleeving does not exist in
[NanoTrasen](/wiki/NanoTrasen "wikilink") space outside of
[Virgo-Erigone](/wiki/Virgo-Erigone "wikilink") and because [Corporate
Regulations](/wiki/Corporate_Regulations "wikilink") don't account for
specific resleeving-related crimes, the following case-law will serve:

-   Printing bodies and using them for non-emergency purposes without
    'owner' consent is **negligence** in NT space.
-   Overwriting a functioning, living mind in a working body is
    **murder** in NT space.
-   Creating copies of the same mind in multiple bodies ("forking") is
    **sedition** in NT space.

The Meta/OOC Stuff
------------------

The 'mind compatibility' and the existence of a bodyscan at all are both
settings on the 'Vore' tab of character setup. You can disable having a
body scan at all if you would prefer your character be DNC, or you can
enable the 'body impersionation lock' setting which will prevent anyone
else from impersonating you if you so desire. Any attempt to resleeve
into your body will be denied.

Resleeving living people IS possible, though for the sake of allowing
things like kidnappings to still have gravity, we'd suggest that you
consider 'live resleeving' from a distance to be a dangerous operation,
and that it may result in corrupted/lost memories. If you're all
standing there in the resleeving room and you're just asking nicely for
a new body because you want to try out being a Tajaran or something when
you've always been a Human, then you can probably handwave the danger
for RP purposes. Basically: Don't let resleeving take away RP options
from people, only let it add them.

It's also possible to OVERWRITE living people with the resleeving pod.
Just make sure this is a reasonable thing for your characters to be
doing, as it's hyper-illegal. Make sure prefs align and yadda yadda.

The rules are generally the same as for clone memory disorder, where you
can/can't remember how you died (if you even died) and whatnot, in
whatever way most optimally protects the scenes. See [Guide to
Vore\#Being Resleeved](/wiki/Guide_to_Vore#Being_Resleeved "wikilink") for
details.
