---
title: Identifying Antagonists
permalink: wiki/Identifying_Antagonists/
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Rules
---

Due to confusion over how much knowledge people would have about various
items and the various antagonists, the following is the rules concerning
identifying antagonists.

This page is considered part of the [Rules](/wiki/Rules "wikilink").

**HAVING A MILITARY BACKSTORY OR ANYTHING SIMILAR DOES NOT OVERRULE ANY
OF THESE**

As always, if someone comes along spouting IC "knowledge" of things on
this page, or any other lesser-known details of the setting, **including
Virgo-specific things** like the cult of Devoratrix Mundi or whatever
antag-of-the-week we've made up on the spot, your characters are free to
respond to them in much the same way as if they were talking about
"chemtrails" or whatever the lunatic theory of the day happens to be.

Syndicate Items
---------------

Syndicate items are purposefully hidden from the general public and from
most NanoTrasen employees, which is necessary for the Syndicate to fully
complete their tasks, and for NanoTrasen to keep their employees in
line. These items are mostly considered contraband. Certain items
however are identifiable to those with certain training. Syndicate items
are occasionally available on the black market, and if identified,
possession of such devices does not *necessarily* imply syndicate
involvement.

**Recognising an object does not mean you know it's from the Syndicate,
only what it is, and what it does. Some items are also simply modified
versions of existing items, and some items are disguised.**

### AI and Cyborgs

The AI is only able to glance at things with it's camera, making
identification hard at distances. All items disguised as other items are
therefore unidentifiable unless blatantly in use (e.g. Emag, hack tool,
mysterious package, lighter, etc.)

AI's are able to tell when obvious contraband is used though (e.g.
Revolvers, energy swords, etc.) In keeping with conventions, AI's are
allowed limited knowledge of contraband, but are only to offer this
information if directly prompted.

Cyborgs follow the same rules as their human counterparts, but can ask
the AI for any suspicious objects.

### Items

The following is a list of Syndicate items and who would be able to tell
what is what. If the item is not listed, the default is only the Captain
or Head of Security would have any vague knowledge.

#### Revolver & Ammo

Everyone knows that nobody outside of security should have a revolver,
and everyone also knows they shouldn't be using lethal weapons on
people.

#### Energy Crossbow

Everyone knows it's an illegal weapon but not exactly how it works. If
it were tested, it could be figured out.

#### Energy Sword

It is very obviously a dangerous weapon to everyone. Exactly how much
someone knows about what it is and how it works would vary from job to
job, with Security and weapons researchers likely knowing the most.

#### EMP Grenades

Everyone knows it's a grenade, security and science know it's an EMP
grenade. Both of those know that nobody outside of security is normally
meant to have these. If it goes off, anyone could tell that electronics
have been screwed with pretty seriously.

#### Sleepy Pen

It's just a pen. If R&D took it apart and investigated its contents,
they would find that it is a low-capacity hypospray hidden inside a pen
case.

#### Syndicate Soap

It's a bar of soap. Not exactly contraband.

#### Detomatix PDA Cartridge

It's a strange PDA cartridge. If put inside your PDA, the menu would be
simple enough to navigate and use for anyone.

#### Chameleon Clothes

Seeing one of them changing would be pretty weird and probably known as
holoclothing, and suspicious if it's to a restricted item, which is
definitely chameleon clothing. Security and Science should be both very
aware that it is minor contraband outside science.

#### No-Slip Syndicate Shoes

They're a pair of shoes. Not even close to contraband.

#### Agent ID card

It's a normal ID to most people. It's normal to Heads unless they
investigate it closely (and have a reason to do so), in which case it's
an illegally modified ID card. Science can investigate and find that it
can change itself on the fly.

#### Voice Changer

It's an ordinary gas mask, until someone talks with it on without an ID
or switches IDs infront of someone while talking. With investigation,
R&D could find out what it is and how it works, though anyone could tell
what it does if they see it in action. Noticing distinguishing features
(or a lack of them) which aren't covered by the mask, and are wrong for
the person whose voice is being imitated, would tip someone who knows
that something is going on.

#### Thermal Imaging Glasses

They're ordinary sunglasses. If put on, you can tell that they see
living creatures through walls. Not really illegal beyond usual NT
privacy laws concerning thermal glasses, but odd.

#### Chameleon-Projector

It's an odd and suspicious device. Security knows it's illegal. Research
can take it apart or otherwise investigate it to find out exactly what
it does and how it works.

#### Cryptographic Sequencer

Everyone can immediately see it's a modified ID card (which is illegal),
engineers and scientists would know that it would screw up electronics
like in doors if they investigated it closely.

#### Fully Loaded Toolbox

It's a toolbox. Not illegal.

#### Traitor Radio Key

It's an ordinary radio key, until you put it in a radio, in which case
you'd be able to tell that it goes onto an unknown radio channel. This
isn't illegal by itself (there are a LOT of empty channels that don't
usually get traffic). Listening in on encrypted channels, like
department channels, is. (This item is not currently available to
traitors, but does exist in the code).

#### Binary Translator Key

As above, except onto the silicon talk thing instead of an unknown radio
channel. Not illegal, but a little strange. Those with a bit more
knowledge in robotics might realize that this is much more serious tech
than normal encryption keys.

#### Space Suit

It's a space suit. Its color is nonstandard, but that's not illegal.
Those without authorization to have spacesuits (which is nearly anyone
not in one of the four major departments, and a couple within those)
shouldn't have it, but if there's not any suits missing from the
station, then they probably didn't steal it.

#### Hacked AI Upload Module

Everyone knows it's a circuitboard. Engineers and scientists could tell
that it's a modified AI upload module, which is very illegal.
Roboticists would be able to tell how it's modified, and that it uploads
corrupt, overriding laws.

#### C-4

Everyone can see that it is a bomb.

#### Powersink

Everyone knows it's not of NT origin, engineers know it's going to suck
power out of the ship and is therefore illegal.

#### Singularity Beacon

Everyone knows it's not of NT origin, and looks pretty odd. Engineers
and scientists know it's going to try to pull the singularity over to
it.

#### Teleporter Circuit Board

Everyone can tell it's a circuitboard and what it builds, and knows that
these ones are meant to stay in tech storage and the teleporter room. If
you go and use it to make a teleporter to get into high security areas
then security is well within their rights to pull the thing down and
confiscate the circuitboard.

#### Freedom Implant, Compressed Matter Implant, Explosive Implant, Uplink Implant

Having an implant without it noted in medical records is odd, and should
probably be investigated. If the implant is removed for some reason,
Research can tell what sort of implant it is.

Implanters aren't meant to be outside of medbay and certain sections of
Security, so if one's just lying around it should be at least taken back
to Medical, and possibly investigated if anything else about the
situation is suspicious.

### Syndie Balloon

It's just a balloon.

### Weapon Permits

There's really no way to tell if a permit is fake or not. Fortunately,
if a [Head of Security](/wiki/Head_of_Security "wikilink") thinks a permit is
suspicious, they are allowed to terminate the permit and confiscate the
weapon(s) for any reason. It's up to the person who received the permit
to contact the [Colony Director](/wiki/Colony_Director "wikilink") or [Central
Command](/wiki/Central_Command "wikilink") to override the decision.

Permits that are explicitly issued by CentCom, such as for personal
conceal carry, are much harder to fake, although the Head of Security
can still suspend those permits for the entire shift if they need to.

Mercenaries, pirates, and criminals
-----------------------------------

Mercs, pirates, and criminals exist. They do mercenary, piratical, and
criminal things. There are about a million different groups and factions
of them, and crew are unlikely to know anything about the band that just
showed up unless they've dealt with them specifically before.

Crew will generally be aware that people in the underworld carry and use
a variety of black-market gear, and unidentified hostiles are more
likely to be common or garden criminals such as these than they are to
be any actual organised group such as the syndicate, spider clan,
wizard's federation, or whatever else you might immediately metagame
from seeing an emag.

The Syndicate
-------------

All staff may know the Syndicate as a dangerous organisation, working
against NanoTrasen - in much the same way that a 21st-century american
knows that Al Qaeda and ISIS are religious terrorist organisations, and
most have *heard* of them, people outside the actual intelligence
community generally know nothing of their actual methods, dealings or
internal workings.

**Security forces and the Captain** have been briefed vaguely about
Syndicate forces, but only as much as is detailed above in items.

All **Heads of Staff** have been briefed to the extent of any CentComm
reports.

General crew **who have met them before** are allowed to retain
knowledge of whatever things they've dealt with directly. If your
character has a background involving the syndicate (or any other
antagonistic organisation) then it is required to discuss such
characters with the admins to hash out how much or how little they know.

Cult
----

The Order of Nar'Sie is a secret and secluded cult, and is therefore
**not known by the crew.**

The Chaplain/Counselor has limited knowledge, up to knowing that the
cult is evil, should probably be stopped, and that holy water will
deconvert those influenced by the cult.

**However, it is (and should be) hard to convince anyone else of this.**

Those who dealt with the Cult of Devoratrix Mundi, naturally, will be
familiar with the events surrounding the redspace incursion to the
extent of their IC interaction.

AI Malfunction
--------------

AI's and Cyborgs **are not normally known to malfunction.**

With the exception of overwhelming evidence, outright declaration by the
AI, or from the 'Hostile runtimes' message from CentCom, the AI and
Cyborgs should not be presumed hostile. Law resets are not out of the
option if the AI is acting odd and there is reason to think its laws
might be affected, but this doesn't mean that it's hostile.

Space Ninja
-----------

Space ninjas are as mysterious as they are deadly, and as deadly as they
are mysterious. **The crew know nothing.**

Like wizards, if an individual mercenary happens to show up on the
station with advanced equipment, they should be observed closely and
attempts made to determine their reasons for being there, but do not
warrant an immediate code red unless they prove to be hostile.

It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that a dude in a black
suit and a mask appearing on the station and then cloaking is likely not
good, but it also doesn't mean "that's a spideclan nija who carries a
THX-1198 self-sealing biosuit with a cyclic rate of..." and so on.

Changeling
----------

[Hey, this sounds like one of those things from that crappy movie last
year.](/wiki/Changelings "wikilink")

Creatures colloquially referred to as "Changelings" are like bigfoot, or
the loch ness monster. No research or data has ever been collected from
them, nor has any actual confirmation been found of their existence. The
threat they pose is unknown, if any. They're mostly known of as a series
of celestial legends that get passed around truck stops, sort of a
biological boogeyman. Like old-earth vampires, there are a dozen
different stories that have similar elements but no actual concrete
example, and most of them can boil down to drunken horror stories or
have far more mundane explanations.

It is highly likely that only **research members, specifically
xenobiologists** would know anything about exotic alien creatures, and
the ones who *do* mention anything about so-called changelings would
probably be ridiculed by their colleagues for believing such
pseudoscience.

But let's say you meet something *like* a changeling: They should be
treated as any first contact alien being should be, if they reveal
themselves through actions, words, or otherwise. This includes not being
presumed hostile unless they actually act hostile.

Cortical Borer
--------------

Cortical borers are known as a parasitic creature, though some of their
exact workings are not known. Medical and research staff would know that
sugar sets them at ease and makes them much more cooperative, even
inside of a host.

Meme
----

Memes are a completely unknown entity. No one has any knowledge about
it. Even science staff would only have a theory as to how this lifeform
could exist.

It is not normal, and would probably be quite distressing to come into
contact with it.
