---
title: Mercenary
permalink: wiki/Mercenary/
layout: wiki
tags:
 -  Jobs
---

You're a ragtag hired gun; you've been hired by a corporation to deal
with one of their most influential and well funded corporate opponents:
[NanoTrasen](/wiki/NanoTrasen "wikilink"). Together with your team you're
going to help your hirer's company return to the top of the stock market
and make sure NanoTrasen falls to the bottom. You're being sent to the
to ensure share holders re-consider their views on the almighty
NanoTrasen. Luckily the mercenaries have access to a wide range of
[tools](/wiki/Syndicate_Items "wikilink") to assist them on their mission.
From a simple revolver to the advanced energy crossbow, you have the
tools to get the job done.

Mission Preparation
-------------------

Congratulations, you've been chosen to fill this antagonistic role. Now
the first thing you should do before launching your <s>inevitable</s>
attack on the station is to sit down with your fellow gunmen. Discuss
and create a plan for your team to follow. There's no set leader of your
team but you may find someone quickly take control of the situation
which is perfectly okay, provided they're sensible about it.

### Suiting Up

<img src="Syndie.png" title="fig:The high tech mercenary shuttle, comes with a variety of infiltration equipment like a half finished teleporter and a cloaking device! " alt="The high tech mercenary shuttle, comes with a variety of infiltration equipment like a half finished teleporter and a cloaking device! " width="300" />
Now before you run nilly willy onto the station, you'll discover and
armory full of EVA gear and weapons, as well as a Radio Uplink for
special items. You'll definitely want to pick the most fashionable suit
and preferably a weapon too. It's also recommended to discuss what you
will use the radio uplink for as it comes with a finite amount of
crystals.

If you're one of those folk who typically tend to lose things it might
be a good idea to just move the armory contents onto the shuttle should
you need a spare as you typically won't be coming back until the mission
is done.

### Selecting Your Gear

Depending on your plan (and RNG gods / admin fuckery), your selection of
gear may vary. Typically you'll want to take a standard issue C20r
submachine gun. It's not the best weapon for hostage taking as it tends
to cause internal bleeding and leave shrapnel behind which can be quite
pesky to deal with, but its firepower and compact size makes it a
versatile weapon able to deal with many threats. Try to use it
sparingly, as it eats through ammunition faster than Keegan eats
assistants.

You also have access to two Ion Rifles, a weapon which has the ability
to disable electronic devices. It is especially effective against
Cyborgs and crew with prosthetic limbs and organs.

Lastly, out of your standard equipment, you usually have access to some
energy swords and shields to protect yourself at close ranges. These are
also good for mitigating damage from ranged enemies as well while you
are taking point.

Everything else in the armory depends on what goodies your mercenary
pals have purchased or whatever supplies you've been given by your
employer days prior to the operation. (In other words, it's completely
fucking random unless an admin is involved.)

### Radio Uplink

The radio uplink is a remote item teleportation device which you'll find
it on the armory floor. It can be used to summon various items out in
the field which will aid you in your plan. However they run off
tele-crystals and you have a finite amount of crystals to work with.

Recommended purchases:

-   Electromagnetic Card (Emag) - Allows access to all restricted areas
    and multiple ID locked terminals. It also breaks and tampers with
    many other kinds of electronics, ranging from arcade machines to the
    [AI](/wiki/AI "wikilink").
-   Plastic Explosive (C4) - Very useful for gaining access to anywhere
    when subtlety is not needed.
-   Agent ID - Allows you to set your character's name and job title to
    anything. Useful for impersonating officials. It can also copy
    access from other IDs.

You may also consider other items like the Teleporter circuit board for
allowing quick and easy access to the station's many restricted areas.

### Traveling

So, you're all geared up, have a plan, and are raring to go? Then go
ahead and board your shuttle and don't forget to close the airlock
behind you. Once aboard, use the shuttle's control panel in the cockpit
to move to the station. You'll also note a cloaking device button, which
if disabled, the station will receive a warning about an unknown ship
heading their way, which will probably make life difficult for you.
There are various positions you can fly the shuttle to around the
station, including the Telecommunications satellite and the mining
asteroid. If you can convince the crew your intentions are peaceful, you
might even be able to dock with the station.

### Communicating

Your headsets have an additional channel added to communicate with your
fellow teammates. You can access it by using ':t' or ':h' in your
message. This channel is private to your team only, thus confidential.

#### Useful information

All fellow mercenaries have a large *S* next to their player in-game, so
try and avoid shooting them by mistake, especially while in disguise.

Tips
----

-   Try and subvert the AI, as it can easily give you away early game,
    making your life a hell of a lot harder.
-   Try and take hostages, as security and command will be more willing
    to listen to your demands when you have leverage.
-   Don't be afraid to intimidate the crew a little, just don't
    wordlessly murder crew without any roleplay as it's considered very
    bad form and may even lead to a ban.

[Category:Game Modes](/wiki/Category:Game_Modes "wikilink")
[Category:Guides](/wiki/Category:Guides "wikilink")
