---
title: Milky Way
permalink: wiki/Milky_Way/
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Lore
---

![A map of the Milky Way.](MilkyWay.jpg "fig:A map of the Milky Way.")
The Milky Way is the galaxy that contains the [Sol](/wiki/Sol "wikilink")
System, as well as every living alien race currently known by humanity.
The descriptive "milky" is derived from the appearance from Earth of the
galaxy – a band of light seen in the night sky formed from stars that
cannot be individually distinguished by the naked eye. The term Milky
Way is a translation of the Latin via lactea, from the Greek γαλαξίας
κύκλος (galaxías kýklos, "milky circle"). From Earth, the Milky Way
appears as a band because its disk-shaped structure is viewed from
within. Galileo Galilei first resolved the band of light into individual
stars with his telescope in 1610. Until the early 1920s, most
astronomers thought that the Milky Way contained all the stars in the
Universe. Following the 1920 Great Debate between the astronomers Harlow
Shapley and Heber Curtis, observations by Edwin Hubble showed that the
Milky Way is just one of many galaxies.

The Milky Way is a barred spiral galaxy with a diameter between 100,000
and 180,000 light-years. The Milky Way is estimated to contain 100–400
billion stars. There are probably at least 100 billion planets in the
Milky Way. The Solar System is located within the disk, about 26,000
light-years from the Galactic Center, on the inner edge of one of the
spiral-shaped concentrations of gas and dust called the Orion Spur,
which is a part of the Orion Arm. The stars in the inner ≈10,000
light-years form a bulge and one or more bars that radiate from the
bulge. The very center is marked by an intense radio source, named
Sagittarius A\*, which is a supermassive black hole.

Stars and gases at a wide range of distances from the Galactic Center
orbit at approximately 220 kilometers per second. The constant rotation
speed contradicts the laws of Keplerian dynamics and suggests that much
of the mass of the Milky Way does not emit or absorb electromagnetic
radiation. This mass has been termed "dark matter". The rotational
period is about 240 million years at the position of the Sun. The Milky
Way as a whole is moving at a velocity of approximately 600 km per
second with respect to extragalactic frames of reference. The oldest
stars in the Milky Way are nearly as old as the Universe itself and thus
probably formed shortly after the Dark Ages of the Big Bang.

The Milky Way has several satellite galaxies and is part of the Local
Group of galaxies, which is a component of the Virgo Supercluster, which
is itself a component of the Laniakea Supercluster.
