---
title: NanoTrasen Rules and Regulations
permalink: wiki/NanoTrasen_Rules_and_Regulations/
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Lore
---

Bits and pieces from those arcane tombs of 'NanoTrasen Rules and
Regulations Vol. I-XXI'

AI's and Cyborgs
----------------

-   **NanoTrasen Security Protocol \#99719; AI Upload Access Procedure**

In Code Blue or higher situations no Head of Staff is to enter the AI
Upload or AI Core unless accompanied by at least one other Head of
Staff, or at least one Security Officer if no other Heads of Staff are
available. The AI Upload and AI Core are explicitly off-limits to all
other personnel.  
In all other situations, two Heads of Staff are recommended, but not
necessary.

-   **Regulation 657: Cyborgification upon Deceased Crew Members.**

All Crew members aboard registered NanoTrasen ships and stations are
permitted to agree to a Cyborgification Procedure upon their person
should they become deceased on board the NanoTrasen Ship or Station. The
registered Roboticist (or a crew member trained in advanced
lobotomisation, should no Roboticist be available) aboard the station is
to record the signatures of any crew members who wish to undertake the
Cyborgification procedure instead of the typical NanoTrasen Cloning or
Funeral procedures upon death. The registered Captain (or highest
authority on the matter) has the right to refuse the Cyborgification,
should there be any health, security related reasons which as such would
cause danger to the ship or station or if the procedure would cause the
ship or station's functionality to be undermined. Should the Captain (or
highest authority on the matter) require it; a deceased crew member can
be Cyborgified without the signature of the deceased crew member. The
Cyborgification Procedure is to be undertaken as set by NanoTrasen
Regulation 658.

-   **Regulation 1034: Cyborgification upon Living Crew Members.**

As of 23/1/2547 all Crew members aboard registered NanoTrasen ships and
stations are permitted to agree to a Live Cyborgification Procedure upon
their person. The registered Roboticist (or a crew member trained in
advanced lobotomisation, should no Roboticist be available) aboard the
station is to provide the necessary paperwork which is to be signed by
both the recipient of the Cyborgification and the Captain (or highest
authority on the matter) and stamped by the crew member performing the
procedure. The registered Captain (or highest authority on the matter)
has the right to refuse the Cyborgification, should there be any health,
security related reasons which as such would cause danger to the ship or
station or if the procedure would cause the ship or station's
functionality to be undermined. The Cyborgification Procedure is to be
undertaken as set by NanoTrasen Regulation 658.

-   **Regulation 658: Cyborgification/Artificial Intelligence
    Assimilation Procedure.**

The Cyborgification/AIA Procedure upon crew members is to be performed
by the registered Roboticist (or a crew member trained in advanced
lobotomisation, should no Roboticist be available) upon the ship or
station. The subject is to be placed upon the surgical table and have
all head and face peripherals removed. The subject's cranium is then to
be cut open through an initial incision by scalpel, and then complete
removal through use of a circular saw. The subject's brain is then to be
severed from the spinal cord through an initial incision by scalpel, and
then complete removal through use of a circular saw. Crew performing the
procedure are encouraged to wear gloves during the procedure and whilst
handling the subject's brain. Once removed, the subject's brain is to be
immediately attached to an available Cyborg Suit/AI Construct's synaptic
receptors so that the subject can return to duty/be installed. Should
the subject be alive before and during the procedure, the crew member
performing the procedure is expected to provide and apply necessary
sedatives, to avoid any unwanted pain or trauma.

-   **Regulation 144: Proper Power Usage.**

During standard operation, all crew are encouraged to turn off local
lighting when not in use. This means using a rooms light-switch, NOT the
APC. Rooms without light switches, main halls, and secure areas, should
remain lit at all times. During situations where power is limited,
engineers and AI are encouraged to further limit power waste, by
disabling power in unused areas. This can be vital during times where
primary power is unavailable, as secondary power is not intended to run
all station systems.

-   **Regulation 1176: Artificial Intelligence Assimilation upon Living
    and Deceased Crew Members.**

All Crew members aboard registered NanoTrasen ships and stations are
permitted to agree to an Artificial Intelligence Assimilation (AIA)
Procedure upon their person, either whilst they are living, or should
they pass on. The registered Roboticist (or a crew member trained in
advanced lobotomisation, should no Roboticist be available) aboard the
station is to provide the necessary paperwork which is to be signed by
both the recipient of the AIA and the Captain (or highest authority on
the matter) and stamped by the crew member performing the procedure. The
registered Captain (or highest authority on the matter) has the right to
refuse the AIA, should there be any health, security related reasons
which as such would cause danger to the ship or station or if the
procedure would cause the ship or station's functionality to be
undermined. The AIA Procedure is to be undertaken as set by NanoTrasen
Regulation 658.
