---
title: Non-Contiguous Memory Disorder
permalink: wiki/Non-Contiguous_Memory_Disorder/
layout: wiki
---

In-character
------------

**Non-Contiguous Memory Disorder**, usually simply shortened to Non-Con,
NCMD, or the obsolete term CMD (short for "Clone Memory Disorder"), is
an umbrella term for a wide range of psychological and memory-related
disorders that are common to those who have undergone resleeving,
cloning or similar procedures, primarily rooted in missing or false
memories and transcription errors between the old body and their new
one. Not all people experience such symptoms, and the reactions can vary
wildly from patient to patient.

The scientific community is divided about the precise causes- Some of
them are biologically obvious, such as symptoms from the general
'reboot' of the body or time-lag between the mind-backup and subsequent
resleeve, others psychologically motivated, causing them to vary from
individual to individual. Researchers to this day try to figure out more
about the issues with individuals that lead to such extreme reactions to
the default sleeving process, and several research facilities receive
grant money to attempt to design a more stable system. <s>And where
better than that weird backwater station where people get eaten and
resleeved all the time?</s>

The two most common symptoms are:

-   Disorientation immediately following resleeving.
-   Short term memory loss, typically up to either the point of scanning
    or shortly prior to the point of death.

In short, the most common symptoms are broadly similar to suffering a
concussion and regaining consciousness in the medical facility, which is
consistent with the brain damage that is a common factor with
newly-grown sleeves and the cloning technology that predates resleeving.
Personnel may have mind-scan implants to allow burst-transmission to a
paired backup database, allowing memories to be recovered after the
point of scanning. Typically such devices are not foolproof, with the
most common flaw being that traumatic memories are often
poorly-transcribed, sometimes even resulting in entirely false memories.
On the other hand, some patients do not appear to manifest any of the
symptoms at all.

**As a result of their inherently unreliable nature, witness statements
from Non-Con patients are inadmissible as evidence in criminal
proceedings.** At most, security teams may use their statements as
probable cause to begin an investigation and look for corroborating
evidence that is enough to convict on its own.

More rarely, other symptoms can manifest as a result of resleeving.
These include, but are not limited to:

-   Mood Swings
-   Dizziness
-   Nausea
-   Anxiety
-   Nightmares/Flashbacks (in such instances, an appointment with a
    psychiatrist is recommended.)
-   Long-Term Memory Loss
-   PTSD

Whenever possible, an individual who has been resleeved should be
discreetly set for psychiatric evaluation and work-through, to either
come to terms with their status or work through the various cognitive
dissonance.

**Patient reactions to learning that he or she has been resleeved can
vary widely** based on several factors; while some take such information
relatively well, an outwardly joking or nonchalant demeanor
post-discovery does not necessarily correlate with a lack of issue. For
this reason, it is always important for the doctor or resident
geneticist to consult a patient's medical record before proceeding with
the resleeving process.

It is recommended that medical staff treat resleeved patients with
politeness and dignity. They should not attempt to conceal knowledge or
information about the reasons the patient was resleeved from the patient
themselves, however they should also not attempt to force the
information on them should the patient not wish to know.

OOC policy
----------

The short version of the server's policy on NCMD is that there are
currently no restrictions on what you can and cannot remember about your
past life / death when it comes to a willing death, but for unwilling
deaths you should forget the details so you don't abuse it for revenge
killings or screaming out the name of your predator to security.

The [rules](rules "wikilink") require that you have *at the very most*
hazy IC memories of the circumstances leading immediately up to your
death if it was unwilling vore. Ideally, for an unwilling demise, you
should not remember how you died, or who was responsible - if nothing
else, your predator has taken the time to give you a (presumably)
enjoyable scene, so it's kinda a dick move to remember it, report it,
and make them hide from security for the rest of the shift. The reason
for this policy (both OOCly, and ICly as far as some medical players are
concerned) is that if predators are going to be immediately arrested as
soon as the prey are resleeved, they're just not gonna bother ensuring
their prey come back - and that leaves people sitting in deadchat.

One way to play this is just remembering everything up until you got
scanned for future resleeving and nothing afterwards if you do get
resleeved - this is the case for one-time scans (ie. those without an
implant) anyway. Other people prefer to play it off as having only
vague/fuzzy recall of anything that you would use as evidence in a
prosecution. ("I.. I don't know.. I can't remember their face, it
happened so fast, it... it was warm, and I can't... remember.")
Otherwise, for willing scenes - go nuts. Have full recall. It's not a
situation where you're going to be ICly going for revenge afterwards or
causing other tension/drama after the fact so go ahead with full recall.
Fluff it as being a non-traumatic experience so your backup implant
worked properly, while traumatic experiences end up being blotted out,
or something like that.

Hell, you might not even want the IC knowledge of having been resleeved
at all, so ICly you might wind up with some sort of
false-memory-syndrome where you misremember it as something like... they
must have let you go, they were just playing around, something like that
- if you remember anything at all.

When resleeving people, whether you bring up that they were just
resleeved is up to your judgement. Your character has sworn an oath at
some point to do no harm if they're in a medical career, so don't bring
it up if you think it will traumatize them. Trying to hide it, however,
may not work out in your favor if they discover it later (happens more
often than you might think). You can always LOOC to the patient as well,
and ask if they want their character to be told if you aren't sure.
