---
title: RauMauser
permalink: wiki/RauMauser/
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Corporations
 - Lore
---

*"Deutsche Wertarbeit in der Verteidigung."*  
â€” RauMauser advertisement slogan

<onlyinclude>Why fix what isn't broken? Some of history's greatest
weapons have their origin in the second world war, and the tactics of
conducting battle have changed little in the 600 years since then.
Though drones and robots and space weapons now join soldiers on the
battlefield, wars are still won by boots on the ground. RauMauser takes
the best of history's weapons, especially formerly German weapons, and
updates them for today's battlefield, while also reproducing accurate
replicas for collectors and enthusiasts.</onlyinclude>

About
-----

### History

Mauser was a German arms manufacturer of a line of bolt-action rifles
and semi-automatic pistols since the 1870s. Mauser designs were built
for the German armed forces. Since the late 19th and early 20th
centuries, military Mauser designs were also exported and licensed to a
number of countries, as well as being a popular civilian firearm. The
Mauser name has historically been licensed by other companies on
intermittent occasions, however the original company Mauser has since
changed ownership many times over the centuries until its origins were
lost entirely, split or merged into countless arms manufacturers that
eventually evolved into some of the trans-stellar corporations we see
today.

RauMauser, roughly translating to "Lunar Firearms", was founded by
Gunther Mauser (2438-2514) who spent his early life living in a lunar
colony on Earth's moon in the Sol system. According to his
autobiography, as a child, he was fascinated by military history, namely
World War 1 and World War 2.

The colony militia where he lived until the age of 27 was equipped at
the time with cheap semi-automatic weapons that were unreliable in
battle and would frequently fail if exposed to lunar dust. The colony,
in spite of being so close to Earth, was a frequent target for small
groups of pirates, and by the time local military could respond, the
pirates were usually gone. Gunther, whose father was a gunsmith in the
colony, realized that the delicate polymer and electronic firearms and
energy weapons being sold to the colonists were simply not suited for
the rugged environment. He looked to history, namely to the original
designs of the Mauser rifle series and Luger pistol in order to find a
solution. With some updates to the designs for the sake of
modernization, Gunther was able to build his first prototype while still
complying with Sol laws that otherwise prohibit the private manufacture
of semi-automatic rifle caliber weapons, or semi-automatic pistols over
8 rounds capacity. He built what was essentially a replica of the
historic weapons. During a pirate attack in late 2459, the weapon proved
its abilities in battle when all other firearms in the colony had
overheated or outright failed, while Gunther's weapons were still
firing.

The colony militia quickly became interested in the young man's designs
and began funding the production of more, but without any means of
automated manufacturing, the guns were only produced in limited numbers,
all by hand in Gunther's workshop. It wasn't until his designs caught
the attention of a visiting investor that Gunther was able to go into
mass production. Gunther passed away in the year 2514 after suffering a
sudden heart attack, and his company was passed on to his board of
directors who have kept it in business to this day.

### Present Day

RauMauser now produces quality firearms for both military and private
ownership across the galaxy. Their most popular weapons include bolt
action 7.62mm rifles, and the 9mm Luger pistol, as well as newer models
like the Strahlpistole (popularly known as the Energy Luger). These
weapons are most often purchased by colonists, collectors, and
mercenaries. RauMauser weapons are especially popular in systems where
gun laws are restrictive against 'assault' style weapons, or high
capacity weapons.

Allegedly, the company is currently working on a design for a new
crank-recharging energy rifle, and has partnered with
[NanoTrasen](/wiki/NanoTrasen "wikilink") to test the new prototypes.
