---
title: Robust
permalink: wiki/Robust/
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Guides
---

Robust, initially a term to describe the GUI and combat system of SS13
has since grown into a philosophy with different schools of thought.
While used often as a word to describe someone being bested in combat
(e.g. "I sure robusted those scrubs last night, gosh am I awesome.")
ultimately to be robust one must do more than simply master hand to
hand, ranged and chemical combat within SS13, but rather take upon a
play style which incorporates quick thinking, foresight, knowledge and
an ethical code which is unique unto each player on their own.

Being robust is not just knowing how to smash your foes faces in with a
toolbox without being killed yourself, being robust is helping, serving
and protecting those who cannot do these things for themselves. In other
words, Bane may have broken Batman's back, but even when he was broken,
Batman was more robust.

Combat
------

The most basic levels of robustness require a degree of combat prowess.
Not only does a robust individual know how to remove a dangerous crew
member or other life form permanently from the station but also how to
safely and non-harmfully incapacitate a crew member who does not deserve
death. A robust individual is able to assess these situations and
determine the appropriate action as well on their own.

Knowledge
---------

A robust individual may be a jack of all trades, or an expert in but one
specific aspect of SS13, but what makes them robust is knowing where
their strengths lie. Learning new things is always a positive trait, but
never when your knowledge you have is needed in an emergency, or when
learning new skills and talents is potentially dangerous to other crew
members. A robust individual knows how to get out of most situations
without needing to destroy or hurt anyone, and if need be, restore
anything they do destroy later.

Foresight
---------

A robust individual can assess situations big and small and know how to
prepare in the future, and then does that. Reports of hull breaches will
cause a robust individual to ready an air supply, reports of the
singularity escaping will cause a robust individual to carry a crowbar
for powered down airlocks. Having knowledge of how to get out of a
situation, or knowing how to defeat certain foes is no good if you are
not prepared for it. However there is a fine line, a robust individual
never needlessly prepares for situations. You will never see a robust
crew member hoarding commonly used tools purely in case something
happens. A robust individual knows what they need to acquire, and does
so without destroying property or breaking Space Law unless the
situation is dire enough to warrant it.

Ethical Code
------------

The most subjective of this list. Each robust player adheres to a
specific ethical code which is unique unto themselves and themselves
alone. Certain situations will warrant each player a different reaction.
Some may seek out to repair damage first, while others focus on healing
the injured, between these two situations they are both robust, but
different in the ethical code they follow. After mastering combat,
knowledge and foresight a truly robust individual will meditate and
consider what is important to them, and the station as a whole.

Ethical codes can go wrong however. A robust individual can master the
three above laws yet have a selfish ethical code which does not benefit
anyone but the one using it. These people are the dark ones, the
griefers, the shitlords. A truly robust player does not seek out
conflict with these individuals, but will often find themselves thrusted
into it no matter what.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Expect to be the one to die.*
