---
title: Station Engineer
permalink: wiki/Station_Engineer/
layout: wiki
tags:
 -  Jobs
---

As a **Station Engineer** you are the man that, when called, fixes a
broken light bulb, repairs a door, or, rarely, helps break into a rogue
AI's core. You watch over the engine, ensure the electrical machinery
aboard the station is up and running, and, most of all, repair the
station when it inevitably explodes due to
[unforeseen](/wiki/Griefer "wikilink")
[consequences](/wiki/Guide_to_Toxins "wikilink").

Equipment
---------

You start in [Engineering](/wiki/Engineering "wikilink") with a [Hard
Hat](/wiki/Safety_helmet "wikilink"), a [T-Ray
Scanner](/wiki/T-Ray_Scanner "wikilink"), a [Engineering
Headset](/wiki/Headset "wikilink"), an [Engineering
Jumpsuit](jumpsuit "wikilink"), [Tool
Belt](/wiki/Storage_items#Tool_Belt "wikilink") and an [Engineering
PDA](/wiki/PDA "wikilink").

Items that are recommended for Station Engineers include [utility
belts](/wiki/Utility_Belts "wikilink"), [multitools](Multitool "wikilink"), [a
welding helmet](/wiki/Welding_Helmet "wikilink"), [optical meson
scanners](/wiki/Optical_Meson_Scanner "wikilink"), and
[cabling](/wiki/Cable_Coils "wikilink"), as well as the [hazard
vest](hazard_vest "wikilink"). You are also the only people authorised
to use [insulated gloves](insulated_gloves "wikilink").

Utility belts allow for the storage of tools and other such items in
your belt slot, freeing your hands up. The multitool is a nifty piece of
kit, used <s>in the [hacking](hacking "wikilink") of doors</s> for
checking the amount of power flowing through wires, and not for any kind
of illegal activity what-so-ever. The welding mask is vital to protect
your eyes while welding and provides the secondary benefit of protecting
from [flashes](flashes "wikilink"). The optical meson scanner enables
you to see station structure and lighting through obstructions so that
you always know where you're going and what's damaged without having to
accidentally walk into a vacuum-exposed corridor to do it. Cable coils
are used while laying new power lines and completing a few
constructions; while not always needed, it is best to carry some with
you. Hazard vests are bright orange and it enables an engineer to wear
an [emergency oxygen tank](emergency_oxygen_tank "wikilink") in the suit
storage slot, freeing the belt slot for the utility belt.

It is also recommended that you carry a stack of
[metal](metal "wikilink") and [glass](glass "wikilink") with you in your
backpack at all times. This will allow you to respond quickly to any
station damage that may occur. All this gear can be obtained in the
Engineering locker room, in the top right corner of the Engine Room. If
all the metal and glass is gone more can be obtained from the
[Quartermaster](/wiki/Quartermaster "wikilink") in the Cargo Bay.

Doing Your Duty
---------------

You have a few things you should do, if you don't want to be
[robusted](robust "wikilink"), before doing what you want to do.
Repairing things is what engineers do, and so is setting the station
with power. Without any engineers doing a little work, the station will
crumble.

### Starting the Engine

This is an extremely important task. Luckily, it is [very
simple](/wiki/Supermatter_Engine "wikilink"). Make certain you follow the
instructions precisely; an engineer who accidentally **floods
Engineering with phoron** is not a popular person.

### Working the Solars

Read the guide, make sure you have wire, internals and a space suit.
Best of luck.

### Fixing the Station

If there is, indeed, a breach, a broken door, or some other problem you
can fix, you can go ahead and do so. See
[Construction](/wiki/Construction "wikilink") for more details.

### Power Management

Remember that you can use your ID on the Power Monitoring Computer to
remotely controls APCs. In the event that your power sources run dry, it
may be worth turning off a few unneeded APCs. It is also a good idea to
set up [substations](substations "wikilink"), to prevent widespread
power cuts if the main source of power is damaged. Read the guide for
more information.

Predding
--------

As an engineer, you have easy access to tools! These tools can be used
for getting into the room of whoever you want to eat! Alternatively, you
can use remote signalers to bolt down a room with a single button!

Preying
-------

As an engineer, you're given a lot of free time after you set up the
power. Be sure to get scanned, unless you're strictly an endo prey, or
else you might have a [fun time](vore "wikilink")!
