---
title: UES La Perouse
permalink: wiki/UES_La_Perouse/
layout: wiki
---

{{ wip \| assign = An Angry Frenchman}}

| UES La pérouse                       |
|--------------------------------------|
| Date of completion: 15 december 2114 |
| Launch: July 14th 2115               |
| Destination: Sirius                  |
| Fate: crash landed                   |

The UES La Pérouse was a colony ship that founded the first human colony
on the sirius system. Named after french commodore and explorer
[Jean-François de Galaup, comte de La
Pérouse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean-Fran%C3%A7ois_de_Galaup,_comte_de_Lap%C3%A9rouse),
it was the combined efforts of the government ruling the former [French
Republic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/France) and a consortium of 3
french multinationals to ensure the preservation of the French culture
through colonization of nearby systems. The decision came after the UES
Hakobune successfully created humanity's first extra-sol colony,
spreading fear through the former republic of having it's waning
influence shrink further in a turning age for mankind. The ship was laid
out in The [Kourou
spaceport](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guiana_Space_Centre), French
Guyana in 2110. Hastily designed using Hakobune's most successful
features, the ship's production was finished in 2114 and launched the
next year. Headed for the sirius system, the ship's faulty navigation
system was unable to correctly assess the power needed to land on it's
destination and, using earth-like parameters, the ship crash-landed on
July 14th 2120 killing 40% of it's crew in the process.

History
=======

### France and space travel

The former republic of France was a pioneer in term of space travel. Not
wanting to rely on it's more powerful allies, French leaders such as
[Charles de Gaulle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_de_Gaulle)
kick-started the nation's space program using former nazi scientists
left out of Operation paperclip or soviet capture. With the technology
acquired and the economic boom following World War II, the french were
able to build their own [launching
platforms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hammaguir) in former french
Algeria and primitive rockets such as the
[Diamant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diamant) rocket series and soon,
the first European rocket series
[Ariane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ariane_(rocket_family)).
Following the independence of Algeria, a new European launching platform
was built in Kourou which was deep inside a forest covered region of the
country's oversea territories. A hundred year later, the former republic
now part of the United Earth Federation was shaken up by the
announcement of UES Hakobune's successful mission to colonize Proxima
centauri.

### The need for new colonies

During the last century, the french had managed to keep their world-wide
soft power using their former colonies, middle eastern countries and
eastern europe's high society. It was an unstable but persisting
equilibrium that Hakobune's mission menaced. French representative Louis
cartier met with the CEO's of [Dassault
Aerospace](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dassault_Aviation), Chesnais
group and [EADS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Airbus) in
[Evian-les-bains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%89vian-les-Bains) to
discuss a possible expedition to the
[Sirius](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sirius) system. pressed by the
announcement of several new ship constructions, the representatives
decided upon building a variant of the Hakobune using the blueprints of
the ship. Several new factories were built in
[Toulouse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toulouse) and
[Cayenne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cayenne) to accommodate the
gargantuan task at hand and the enormous cost of the operation was well
received by the population as the prospect of being a settler and/or
working in the newly opened factories made the pill easier to swallow.
The ship's construction went swiftly and some critics concerning the
lack of tests and quality control were emanating from the bustling
capital yet didn't affect the hastened production of the ship, which was
launch on july 14th of 2115

Ship design
===========

### Accommodations

### Engine and propulsion

Journey to Sirius
=================

### Life aboard the La Pérouse

### Crew morale

Fate and aftermath
==================

### Landing on Copernicus

### Founding of New Rochelle
