---
title: Shadekin
permalink: wiki/Shadekin/
layout: wiki
---

Very little is known about these creatures. They appear to be largely
mammalian in appearance. Seemingly very rare to encounter, there have
been widespread myths of these creatures the galaxy over, but next to no
verifiable evidence to their existence. However, they have recently been
more verifiably documented in the Virgo system, following a mining
bombardment of Virgo 3. With the most sightings coming from NSB
Adephagia, on and above Virgo 3b. Something in the resulting reaction
seems to have drawn them in, as there has been a huge spike in sightings
all across the Virgo system.

Being as these creatures are such an unknown, a call to action among the
research department has been mustering, to study these aliens. They seem
mammalian, but their ability to come and go as they please with no sign
of entry would appear to betray some serious lack of understanding in
just what they are, and where they come from. The name and
classification for this species is as yet, unknown.

The crew of NSB Adephagia have taken to calling these creatures
"Shadekin", and the name has generally stuck and spread, being as they
seem to lack an actual species name as far as we can tell.

Overview
========

-   Large brightly colored eyes
-   Huge expressive ears
-   Pawbs
-   Long tail
-   No pockets

Biology
-------

![](Shadekin.png "fig:Shadekin.png") Seemingly very difficult to scan.
Their body systems may very well be different to those of previously
encountered species. Research specialists are working on scanning
devices which can study the creatures.

At a glance though, they appear to be mammalian. Perhaps evolved from
some kind of unknown species. They seem to typically have thick fur,
large expressive ears, and large brightly colored eyes. No pupils seem
to be present in these eyes however, suggesting a very different
structure to those of most traditional mammals. Soft, pliable flesh, and
long tails. The shape, structure, and colors of these creatures seems to
vary to some degree, more than one might expect from a traditional
mammal of the same species.

### Gender Differences and Reproduction

No reliable data yet. There are reports of somewhat traditional male and
female genitals present. These reports are however very inconsistent,
and the genitals of the creatures seem to be hidden ordinarily. The
creatures do not appear to have any obvious tells for gender or sex
ordinarily. There are reports of some with more traditional feminine or
masculine body structures, but these do not seem to be consistent among
their species. It's ordinarily somewhat difficult to tell without asking
them, or seeing their genitals.

### Lifespan

Insufficient data

### Diet

They do not seem to be picky. Reports are coming in from all over, of
the creatures accepting, or stealing all kinds of food from crew.

Behavior
========

These aliens appear to be primarily bipedal, and have been confirmed to
be of similar level of mental development and faculties to other space
faring species. They also seem to have some kind of language with which
to communicate, and there are reports that this can be done at range.
The creatures have been shown to posses a high capacity for learning, as
there are a number of them who have been reported to have learned
Galactic Common well enough to communicate with crew to varying degrees
of competency.

Primarily, encounters with these creatures have been peaceful, the
creatures primarily seem to be curious explorers inspecting our
facilities, though there have been reports of kidnappings and even
attacks by a few members of their kind.

It is notable to mention that these creatures seem to have a means of
travelling space without the use of any technology that has been
detected, and have been known to escape confinement even when such
should be impossible.

There has been one reported kill on these creatures, though no body was
recovered.

Following a number of reports on the creatures, it has been determined
that there appears to be a correlation between eye color and general
temperament:

-   Blue eyes have been by far the most common that have been
    encountered, and in general these seem to be the most likely to
    possess a curious, friendly temperament, and have been the fastest
    in learning Galactic Common.

<!-- -->

-   Purple eyes are the second most common, and appear to be more
    reckless. Not outright hostile, but more likely to retaliate if
    offended or attacked. Like blues, these seem to be curious about us,
    but seem more likely to be aggressive in seeking out their
    curiosity.

<!-- -->

-   Green eyes have been the second most rare to have yet been
    encountered, and these have been primarily evasive or defensive of
    an area. They do not typically respond well to being approached
    casually or in large groups.

<!-- -->

-   Red eyes have been the third most rare to have been seen, and it's a
    good thing too, as they have been almost exclusively aggressive and
    hostile. There are reports of reds who have been able to be reasoned
    with, or who have made deals with the crew, but these seem to be
    outlying cases. It is advised that the crew be extremely careful and
    on guard when dealing with Red eyes.

<!-- -->

-   Orange eyes have been the most rare color to have been seen. Very
    little data has been gathered on them, though they seem to only be
    present for short periods before departing. They seem to be highly
    evasive and sneaky ordinarily.

It should be noted that while these trends in temperament have been
recorded, the eye color of the creature does not exclusively seem
indicative of their intent or personality. There have been reports of
red eyes who are non-hostile, and even helpful at times. And likewise,
there have been reports of some hostility from most of the other eye
colors somewhat in line with trends one might expect from an
intelligent, self determining set of individuals.

Standard Operating Procedures
-----------------------------

Simply put, these are strange aliens whom seem to defy containment, and
communicate with one another through unknown means. It has been
determined that it would probably be a supremely bad idea to make
enemies of these creatures, as in our present state, there is little we
could do to counter them.

Lucky for us, they seem to be relatively peaceful and compliant with our
rules. As such, they are to be treated as visitors. This means they
should only be allowed into restricted areas with the permission of at
least one of the crew in the area. They should not be using restricted
equipment. They should not be vandalizing or damaging the station. The
exception to this is in of course, dress code. They are not required to
wear clothes or possess and display ID cards, though it is encouraged to
issue guest passes to them with their name on them if they are allowed
into an area.

Now, naturally, it should be assumed that these creatures may not be
aware of our laws, so a bit of lenience should be allowed while they are
learning so long as they are not actively sabotaging or otherwise
damaging the station.

That said, should they repeatedly break our regulations, they are to be
brigged, as with any other troublemaker. Should they resist this, they
should be made to leave. Do ensure you make an attempt to deal with
these creatures diplomatically. They should be made to know that they
are guests here, and that we have rules.

Research Directives
-------------------

As with most early contact scenarios, these creatures are largely
unknown. As such, brave individuals are needed to study these aliens. It
is important to note that these potentially dangerous aliens. As yet
they do not appear to be hostile outright however. Should these
creatures present themselves, they are to be protected for study so long
as the subject is not plainly hostile. (Plainly hostile being: Attacking
people for no apparent reason.) Should one of these creatures take issue
with an individual's presence, said individual is to be removed, and a
report to be made regarding their interactions with the creature, and
any notable differences between them and other crew.

These creatures are not to be allowed to meddle with vital station
services, and should be discouraged from doing so with force if
necessary. It should be noted, that these creatures seem to prefer low
light environments, so visibility when dealing with them may be reduced.

As for directives, we have determined that these creatures are of
similar intelligence to other space faring species, though their views
on the nature of the universe seem to be strange.

-   Establish contact, attempt to assist compliant individuals in
    learning Galactic Common. Many of them seem to be attempting to
    learn it, and if we hope to learn from them in turn, we need to be
    able to understand them.

<!-- -->

-   Test the range of ability to manipulate their surroundings, such as
    writing or tools.

<!-- -->

-   Determine what their primary method of communication is (if any),
    and learn to utilize it if possible.

<!-- -->

-   Study what exactly their method of 'disappearing and reappearing'
    is, and how we might be able to utilize, or prevent it.

Lore things
-----------

**Everything below this point should be unknown to anyone encountering a
shadekin who hasn't seen it demonstrated in character, on station.**
Don't read it if you don't want it spoiled.

**If you're wanting to play shadekin, it's required reading.**

Going over some quick points:

-   Shadekin have a similar level of intelligence to humans. They are
    thinking, feeling, learning creatures. Not feral beasts.

<!-- -->

-   Light doesn't hurt shadekin. They're most comfortable in dimly lit
    places, but it causes them no injury or pain to be in well lit
    areas, ESPECIALLY as Blue eyes. Now, they're unlikely to like
    brightly lit things, but just keep in mind, there's a difference
    between someone turning on the lights in a room, and someone
    following you around with a floodlight.

<!-- -->

-   Pay attention to your intro text. Certain shadekin behave in
    different ways. Please pay attention to the way you are supposed to
    behave.

<!-- -->

-   Shadekin names are very important to them. It's their whole
    identity, their reputation, everything. They're proud of them. Now,
    there's no real rules on what those names can and can't be, but
    treat it seriously. They should not just be some random common noun.
    They typically only have one name. If they have an additional name,
    it is typically related to something they are well known for.
    Additional names are not given out lightly, so to have more than one
    denotes serious skill, accomplishment, or notoriety, recognized by
    their kind.

<!-- -->

-   Shadekin do not typically answer to a species name. The term
    Shadekin means nothing to them unless they've spent a lot of time
    around other kinds of people.

<!-- -->

-   Shadekin do not speak Galactic Common to start with. They can
    however learn it, given time.

<!-- -->

-   Shadekin are primarily emphatic among their own kind. They can talk
    to each other with `,m` They do however utilize simple vocalization.
    They have difficulty actually identifying one another by empathy
    alone. They may say some variation of the 'mar' sound, usually in
    appropriate intonation. "Mar?" "Marmar." "MAAAR!!" They may also
    respond to other species marring at them, but their empathy only
    works with their own kind. They cannot hear the thoughts or feelings
    of other species ordinarily.

<!-- -->

-   Shadekin come and go via bluespace tunneling into other
    dimensions/planes. They do this to get around when other paths to
    where they want to be are otherwise unavailable.

<!-- -->

-   Phase shifting is taxing on them normally, so they typically only do
    it when in trouble, or other methods to get where they want to go
    are unavailable. It is easiest to phase shift in darkness, so they
    tend to prefer it.

<!-- -->

-   Shadekin come from, and go to a place they call The Dark. This place
    is a higher dimension, one molded by thoughts and expectations.
    Shadekin are masters of traversing this environment, and can use it
    to travel basically anywhere. Yes. That means they are not
    restricted to one world. They can and do travel the stars.

Here's a small lore dump. While you're not expected to know it in and
out, you should read over it if you're asking to play shadekin.
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FWpMejeXeZee4Xp-Tn1jQDkJfv7uhIIP0kUfFWE6TK4/edit?usp=sharing>
