---
title: Tajaran Minor Clans
permalink: wiki/Tajaran_Minor_Clans/
layout: wiki
---

Hadhim Clan
-----------

A smaller clan, settled in the northern areas of Ahdomai just above the
contested zone. The Hadhim clan hold the virtues of Family and Culture,
because of this they are often known as being great Traders, Doctors and
Historians.

Since the days before the arrival of the megacorporations, rumours have
surfaced in regards to the clan, due to the way family members within
the clan treat each other, it is often thought that people of the Hadhim
clan are prone to incestuous relations among their family.

### Formation, Rise and Fall

#### Formation

Long ago, a Hadii known as Nala Hadii, frustrated with her low ranking
within her own clan and therefore limited political pull, decided that
instead of dealing with the long process of groveling and politicking
she would instead form her own. With that, she took what she had and
anyone who would follow and went to the northlands, into an area that
was previously unclaimed and formed her own clan, which came to be known
as Hadhim.

Over the years, the Hadhim clan grew larger and larger due to skills
presented by a good number of them as skilled traders, while other
members worked as doctors, using their knowledge in local herbs and
remedies to heal travellers, for a price.

#### The Fall

Due to their close proximity with barbarian lands, the Hadhim clan had
many dealings with their more savage kin. Despite this, for a good
portion of time the clan had never experienced problems with the tribes
they dealt with aside from the occassional incident which arose
naturally due to their differences in culture.

It wasn't until another tribe led by Raah Zhan-Khazan showed up for this
peace to falter. Raah had noticed that the Hadhim clan freely traded
with little fear with other raider tribes, and thus they seemed to let
their guard down around the raiders.

With this in mind, Raah began a number of raids, stealing plenty of the
Hadhim supplies and killing many, with even more dying off during the
harsh winters due to now inadequate stocks.

Because of this, the clan numbers dwindled significantly and eventually
fell to a dangerously low number, it has only been in the modern day in
which their numbers seem to be returning to even a fraction of their
former glory.

### Families

Within the Hadhim clan there are three families, the most prominent
being what the clan is named after.

#### Hadhim Family

Making up 75% of the clan, The Hadhim family is proud, holding on dearly
to their heritage and hoping that some day their glory will be regained.
Older members of the Hadhim family likely having higher standards of
living and therefore scoff when things are less then ideal, where as
younger generations are more used to the standard of living they have
now and while they still strive to attain the former glory of the clan,
they realize they can be happy with what they have.

*Typical features of someone from the Hadhim family are a thin build,
green eyes and a light cream coloured fur.*

#### Ramirh Family

Much smaller then the Hadhim Family, making up only 15% of the clan, the
Ramirh are the faithful companions and servants of the Hadhim family.
One may think they would be bitter about this position, however, most of
the Ramirh seem fairly happy with it. Some say that the skills with
medicines and herbs originated with the Ramirh family and were passed on
to the other two families.

*Typical features of someone from the Ramirh family are a somewhat stout
build, dark blue eyes and light brown fur.*

#### Hrash'im Family

The smallest of the three families at only 10% of the clan, Hrash'im are
considered the enforcers of the clan and as such, took the biggest hit
during the barbarian raids. While they still protect the clan's lands to
the best of their ability, the Hrash'im seem almost resentful as they
feel they aren't adequetly represented.

*Typical features of someone from the Hrash'im family are a bulky,
muscular build, yellow eyes and grey fur.*
